[JSON-API] Production/HA documentation. (#10903)
digital-asset/daml: docs/source/json-api/production-setup.rst

.. Copyright (c) 2021 Digital Asset (Switzerland) GmbH and/or its affiliates. All rights reserved.
.. SPDX-License-Identifier: Apache-2.0

Production Setup
################

The vast majority of the prior documentation focuses on ease of testing and running
the service in a dev environment. From a production perspective given the wide
variety of use-cases there is far less of an established framework for deploying
the *HTTP-JSON API* server. In this document we would try to list some recommendations for
production deployments.

The *HTTP-JSON API* server is a JVM application that by default uses an in-memory backend.
This in-memory backend setup is inefficient for larger datasets as for every query it
ends up fetching the entire active contract set for the templates referenced in that query.
For this reason for production setups at a minimum we recommend to use a database
as a query store, this will allow for more efficient caching of the data to improve
query performance. Details for enabling a query store are highlighted below.

Query Store
***********

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion

.. note:: The Community Edition of Daml Connect only supports PostgreSQL backends for the *HTTP JSON API* server, but the Enterprise Edition also supports Oracle backends.

```

Query store can be described as a cached search index and is useful for use-cases
where we need to query large active contract sets. The *HTTP-JSON API* server can be configured
with PostgreSQL/Oracle(Enterprise Edition only) as the query-store backend.

For example to enable the PostgreSQL backend you can use the ``--query-store-jdbc-config`` flag, as shown below.

.. code-block:: shell

    daml json-api --ledger-host localhost --ledger-port 6865 --http-port 7575 \
    --query-store-jdbc-config "driver=org.postgresql.Driver,url=jdbc:postgresql://localhost:5432/test?&ssl=true,user=postgres,password=password,start-mode=start-only"

For using the Query Store you'll want your first run to specify ``start-mode=create-only``
so that all the necessary tables are created. After the first run make

> sure its set to ``start-mode=start-only`` so that it doesn't attempt to create

Reviewer: ```suggestion
sure it is set to ``start-mode=start-only`` so that it doesn't attempt to create
```

Would it be worth having a small discussion of the pros and cons of various `start-mode` options? If this is already documented somewhere else, at least a link would be good. I'm personally not a fan of `create-only`, and would be a bit sad if that were our only recommended production setup.

Author: corrected this , based on the discussion I have added a couple of lines about how the `start-mode` can be used , please have a look to check if that makes sense @garyverhaegen-da :)

Reviewer: 👍

the tables again.

If you are not familiar with JDBC URLs, we recommend reading the `PostgreSQL JDBC documentation <https://jdbc.postgresql.org/documentation/head/connect.html>`__
for more information.

.. note:: The full list of query store configuration flags supported can be seen by running ``daml json-api --help``.

Security and privacy
********************

For an *HTTP-JSON API* server, all data is maintained by the operator of the deployment.
Thus, it is their responsibility to ensure that the data abides by the necessary
regulations and confidentiality expectations.

It is recommended to use the tools documented by PostgreSQL to protect data at
rest and using a secure communication channel between the *HTTP-JSON API* server and the PostgreSQL server.

To protect data in transit and over untrusted networks, the *HTTP-JSON API* server provides
TLS support, to enable TLS you need to specify the private key for your server and the
certificate chain via ``daml json-api --pem server.pem --crt server.crt``. You can also

> set a custom root CA certificate used to validate client certificates via ``--cacrt ca.crt``

Reviewer: Should we link to @nycnewman's [ex-secure-daml-infra](https://github.com/digital-asset/ex-secure-daml-infra) repo here for a full example using TLS everywhere?

Architecture
************

Components
----------

A production setup of the *HTTP-JSON API* will involve the following components:

- the *HTTP-JSON API* server
- the query store backend database server
- the ledger

*HTTP-JSON API* server exposes an API to interact with the Ledger and it uses JDBC to interact
with its underlying query store for caching and serving data efficiently.

The *HTTP-JSON API* server releases are regularly tested with OpenJDK 8 on a 64-bit x86 architecture,
with Ubuntu 20.04, macOS 11.5.2 and Windows Server 2016.

> In production, we recommend running on a 64-bit x86 architecture in a Linux

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In production, we recommend running on a x86_64 architecture in a Linux
```

As far as I know `x86` is the designation for the 32-bit version.

Reviewer 2: I think both here is fine

environment. This environment should have a Java SE Runtime Environment such
as OpenJDK JRE and must be compatible with OpenJDK version 1.8.0_202 or later.
We recommend using PostgreSQL server as query-store, most of our tests have
been done with servers running version > 10.

Scaling and Redundancy
**********************

.. note:: This section of the document only talks about scaling and redundancy setup for the *HTTP-JSON API* server. In all of the recommendations suggested below we assume that the JSON API always interacts with a single participant on the ledger.

> We advise that the *HTTP-JSON API* server and *query store* components to have dedicated

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We advise that the *HTTP-JSON API* server and *query store* components have dedicated
```

computation and memory resources available to them. This can be achieved via
containerization or setting them up on independent physical servers. Ensure that the two
components are **physically co-located** to reduce network latency for
communication. The scaling and availability aspects heavily rely on the interactions between
the core components listed above.

> With respect to scaling we recommend to follow the general advice in trying to

Reviewer: ```suggestion
With respect to vertical scaling we recommend to follow the general advice in trying to
```

Otherwise it's a bit weird that we have one paragraph that covers "scaling" and then another one that covers "in general", "horizontal" scaling.

understand the bottlenecks and see if adding additional processing power/memory
i.e vertical scaling is beneficial.

> In general for horizontal scaling purposes , we recommend to treat the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In general, for horizontal scaling purposes, we recommend to treat the
```

*HTTP-JSON API* and the *query store database server* as a single unit for scaling.
While a setup with multiple *HTTP-JSON API* services running against a single backend
database server is feasible, it maybe a futile exercise if the database server

> itself is the bottleneck.

Reviewer: I'm not entirely sure about this paragraph. This seems to strongly imply we expect the database to be the bottleneck most of the time; do we have evidence for that?

Reviewer 2: It might make more sense to reword this to rather indicate that scaling should be successful as long as the database (and the ledger) can keep up.

Author: I think I was trying to recommend that clients stick to the server+db as a unit of scaling, unless they know better. I will reword this to 

```suggestion
While a setup with multiple *HTTP-JSON API* services running against a single backend
database server is feasible, we would recommend ensuring that the database server is 
not a bottleneck before pursuing such a setup.
```

Reviewer: I'd prefer something more neutral, like:
> The *HTTP JSON API* can be scaled independently of its Query Store. You can have any number of *HTTP JSON API* instances talking to the same Query Store (if, for example, your monitoring indicates that the *HTTP JSON API* processing time is the bottleneck), or have each *HTTP JSON API* instance talk to its own independent Query Store.
>
> In the latter case, ... <explanations of how the Query Store is constructed, per my other comment>

I don't think we want to push people towards having many databases here.

We can run a redundant setup for the *HTTP-JSON API* by using a reverse proxy server with some

> acceptable routing mechanism and then and having multiple *HTTP-JSON API* servers sit behind it

Reviewer: ```suggestion
acceptable routing mechanism and having multiple *HTTP-JSON API* servers sit behind it
```

> each with their own backend database servers and dedicated computation and memory resources.

Reviewer: This is where I would expect some explanation of exactly how the query store is constructed and from that what an "acceptable routing mechanism" is.

Author: @garyverhaegen-da not sure what you mean when you say "how the query store is constructed" ? w.r.t the routing mechanism are you hinting towards suggesting sticky sessions based on parties querying the contract dataset ? I think those decisions can be left to the operators of the deployment.

Reviewer: > I think those decisions can be left to the operators of the deployment.

Decisions, sure, but we should make sure they have the information needed. If we don't tell them why they might want to, they can't really make an informed decision.

I'm not familiar enough with the JSON API to be confident any of the following is true, but I would expect something along these lines:

> The Query Store is built by saving the state of the ACS up to the current offset, which allows the JSON API to only request the delta on subsequent queries, making it much faster than having to request the entire ACS every time. Because of the Daml privacy model (JSON API requests are made using the user-provided token), the data stored in a given Query Store will be specific to the set of parties that have made queries through that specific Query Store instance (for a given template). Therefore, if you do run with separate Query Stores, it may be useful to route queries based on requesting party (and possibly queried template), which would minimize the amount of data in each Query Store as well as the overall redundancy of said data.

Which reminds me, it's also not very clear from this document why the operator needs to be careful with data privacy, which this explanation would also somewhat cover.

Author: I have split this into 2 and added parts about how the query store is built to the top `Query Store` section and the other bits here

Users may consider running PostgreSQL backend in a `high availability configuration <https://www.postgresql.org/docs/current/high-availability.html>`__.
The benefits of this are use-case dependent as this may be more expensive for

> smaller active contract datasets, where re-initializing the cache is cheap and fast.

Reviewer: This is the first time this document implies that it is acceptable to just drop the DB and start from scratch. I think this should be said explicitly, and much earlier, likely around line 23 (i.e. near the start of the "Query store" section).

Finally we recommend using app orchestration utilities which monitor the health of the service
and perform subsequent operations to ensure availability. These utilities can use the
`healthcheck endpoints <https://docs.daml.com/json-api/index.html#healthcheck-endpoints>`__
provided by the *HTTP-JSON API* server. This can also be tied into supporting arbitrary
autoscaling implementation to ensure minimum number of *HTTP-JSON API* servers on
failures.

Logging
*******

*HTTP-JSON API* server uses the industry-standard Logback for logging. You can
read more about that in the `Logback documentation <http://logback.qos.ch/>`__.

The logging infrastructure leverages structured logging as implemented by the
`Logstash Logback Encoder <https://github.com/logstash/logstash-logback-encoder/blob/logstash-logback-encoder-6.3/README.md>`__.

Logged events should carry information about the request being served by the
*HTTP-JSON API* server. When using a traditional logging target (e.g. standard output
or rotating files) this information will be part of the log description.
Using a logging target compatible with the Logstash Logback Encoder allows to have rich

> logs with structured information about the event being logged.

Reviewer: Here I would expect some mention of what fields I can expect in the logs, or a link to an existing page describing that. May also be worth explicitly mentioning that the logs are JSON by default? (Assuming they are; I've lost track of that stream of work.)

Author: @garyverhaegen-da they are not JSON by default , its plaintext encoding, I'll add a line which states that it is the default. Regarding what fields , I can add a note that commands, endpoints and other request/response details are captured in the logs.

Reviewer: Really? I thought we had agreed to make JSON the default across the stack. 🤔

Metrics
*******

Enable and configure reporting
------------------------------

To enable metrics and configure reporting, you can use the two following CLI options:

- ``--metrics-reporter``: passing a legal value will enable reporting; the accepted values
  are as follows:

  - ``console``: prints captured metrics on the standard output

  - ``csv://</path/to/metrics.csv>``: saves the captured metrics in CSV format at the specified location

  - ``graphite://<server_host>[:<server_port>]``: sends captured metrics to a Graphite server. If the port
    is omitted, the default value ``2003`` will be used.

  - ``prometheus://<server_host>[:<server_port>]``: renders captured metrics
    on a http endpoint in accordance with the prometheus protocol. If the port
    is omitted, the default value ``55001`` will be used. The metrics will be
    available under the address ``http://<server_host>:<server_port>/metrics``.

> - ``--metrics-reporting-interval``: metrics are pre-aggregated on the sandbox and sent to

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- ``--metrics-reporting-interval``: metrics are pre-aggregated on the *HTTP JSON API* server and sent to
```
presumably?

  the reporter, this option allows the user to set the interval. The formats accepted are based

>   on the ISO-8601 duration format ``PnDTnHnMn.nS`` with days considered to be exactly 24 hours.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  on the ISO 8601 duration format ``PnDTnHnMn.nS`` with days considered to be exactly 24 hours.
```
Never seent his written with a dash.

  The default interval is 10 seconds.

Types of metrics
================

This is a list of type of metrics with all data points recorded for each.
Use this as a reference when reading the list of metrics.

Counter
-------

Number of occurrences of some event.

Meter
-----

A meter tracks the number of times a given event occurred (throughput). The following data
points are kept and reported by any meter.

- ``<metric.qualified.name>.count``: number of registered data points overall
- ``<metric.qualified.name>.m1_rate``: number of registered data points per minute
- ``<metric.qualified.name>.m5_rate``: number of registered data points every 5 minutes
- ``<metric.qualified.name>.m15_rate``: number of registered data points every 15 minutes
- ``<metric.qualified.name>.mean_rate``: mean number of registered data points

Timers
------

> A timer records all metrics registered by a meter and by an histogram, where

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A timer records all metrics registered by a meter and by a histogram, where
```

the histogram records the time necessary to execute a given operation (unless
otherwise specified, the precision is nanoseconds and the unit of measurement

> is milliseconds).

Reviewer: I'm a bit confused by these units. Does that mean we report fractional numbers?

Author: So AFAIK codahale library measures it in nanoseconds, but then its down to most of the reporters on how they choose to report it.  (ref:  https://metrics.dropwizard.io/4.2.0/getting-started.html#timers)
e.g the console reporter prints this
```
daml.http_json_api.incoming_json_parsing_and_validation_timing
             count = 1
         mean rate = 0.05 calls/second
     1-minute rate = 0.17 calls/second
     5-minute rate = 0.19 calls/second
    15-minute rate = 0.20 calls/second
               min = 225.41 milliseconds
               max = 225.41 milliseconds
              mean = 225.41 milliseconds
            stddev = 0.00 milliseconds
            median = 225.41 milliseconds
              75% <= 225.41 milliseconds
              95% <= 225.41 milliseconds
              98% <= 225.41 milliseconds
              99% <= 225.41 milliseconds
            99.9% <= 225.41 milliseconds
```

Reviewer: Do we care to specify the precision here? Wouldn't

> .. to execute a given operation (in fractional milliseconds).

be good enough here?

List of metrics
===============

> The following is an exhaustive list of selected metrics

Reviewer: "exhaustive" list of "selected" sounds really strange.

Author: will remove `exhaustive`

that can be particularly important to track.

``daml.http_json_api.command_submission_timing``
------------------------------------------------

> A timer. Meters how long processing of a command submission request takes

Reviewer: I would remove all of those `Meters` and just say "How long ...". More importantly, I think this should mention the time unit for each metric (even if it is always the same one).

Author: Regarding time unit for the metric , the Timer description earlier states this
`(unless
otherwise specified, the precision is nanoseconds and the unit of measurement
is milliseconds).`

The wordings for this were from the earlier documentation and I don't personally like either version
with the `Meters` or without it . If we want I can instead add 
`Measures latency for processing a command submission request`

.. SPDX-License-Identifier: Apache-2.0

Production Setup
################

The vast majority of the prior documentation focuses on ease of testing and running
the service in a dev environment. From a production perspective given the wide
variety of use-cases there is far less of an established framework for deploying
the *JSON API*. In this document we would try to list some recommendations for
production deployments.

The *JSON API service* is a JVM application that by default uses an in-memory backend.
This in-memory backend setup is inefficient for larger datasets as for every query it
ends up fetching the entire active contract set for the templates referenced in that query.
For this reason for production setups at a minimum we recommend to use a database
as a query store, this will allow for more efficient caching of the data to improve
query performance. Details for enabling a query store are highlighted below.

Query Store
***********

Query store can be described as a cached search index and is useful for use-cases
where we need to query large active contract sets. The *JSON API* can be configured
with PostgreSQL/Oracle(Enterprise Edition only) as the query-store backend.

> For e.g to enable the PostgreSQL backend you can use the ``--query-store-jdbc-config`` flag, an example of which is below.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
For example to enable the PostgreSQL backend you can use the ``--query-store-jdbc-config`` flag, an example of which is below.
```

.. note:: When you use the Query Store you'll want your first run to specify ``start-mode=create-only`` so that all the necessary tables are created. After the first run make sure ``start-mode=start-only`` so that it doesn't attempt to create the tables again.

.. code-block:: shell

    daml json-api --ledger-host localhost --ledger-port 6865 --http-port 7575 \
    --query-store-jdbc-config "driver=org.postgresql.Driver,url=jdbc:postgresql://localhost:5432/test?&ssl=true,user=postgres,password=password,start-mode=start-only"

If you are not familiar with JDBC URLs, we recommend reading the `PostgreSQL JDBC documentation <https://jdbc.postgresql.org/documentation/head/connect.html>`__
for more information.

Service Configuration
*********************

.. note:: The full list of configuration flags supported by the JSON API can be seen by running ``daml json-api --help``.

Following are the list of recommended configs for a production deployment ? //TODO

> Security and privacy
> ***************************

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Security and privacy
********************
```

Reviewer 3: I believe there's a check in our docs build phase that ensures that header markups are the same length as the header text, sprinkled likewise suggestions all over the PR.

In *JSON API service*, all data is maintained by the operator of the deployment.
Thus, it is their responsibility to ensure that the data abides by the necessary
regulations and confidentiality expectations.

It is recommended to use the tools documented by PostgreSQL to protect data at
rest and using a secure communication channel between the *JSON API* server and the PostgreSQL server.

To protect data in transit and over untrusted networks, the JSON API provides
TLS support, to enable TLS you need to specify the private key for your server and the
certificate chain via ``daml json-api --pem server.pem --crt server.crt``. You can also
set a custom root CA certificate used to validate client certificates via ``--cacrt ca.crt``

> Architecture
> ***************************

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Architecture
************
```

Components
----------

A production setup of the *JSON API* service will involve the following components:

- the *JSON API* server
- the query store backend database server
- a ledger

> *JSON API* exposes a RESTFul API to interact with the Ledger and it uses JDBC to interact

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
*JSON API* exposes an API to interact with the Ledger and it uses JDBC to interact
```
Not really RESTful. 🙂

with its underlying query store for caching and serving data efficiently.

The *JSON API* is regularly tested with OpenJDK 8 on a 64-bit x86 architecture,
with Ubuntu 20.04, macOS 11.5.2 and Windows Server 2016.

In production, we recommend running on a 64-bit x86 architecture in a Linux
environment. This environment should have a Java SE Runtime Environment such
as OpenJDK JRE and must be compatible with OpenJDK version 1.8.0_202 or later.
We recommend using PostgreSQL server as query-store, most of our tests have
been done with servers running version > 10.

> Scaling and Redundancy
> ***************************

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Scaling and Redundancy
**********************
```

.. note:: This section of the document only talks about scaling and redundancy setup for the JSON API. In all of the recommendations suggested below we assume that the JSON API always interacts with a single participant on the ledger.

We advise that the *JSON API server* and *query store* components to have dedicated
computation and memory resources available to them. This can be achieved via
containerization or setting them up on independent physical servers. Ensure that the two
components are **physically co-located** to reduce network latency for
communication between the *JSON API* and the *database server*
The scaling and availability aspects heavily rely on the interactions between
the core components listed above.

> With respect to scaling we recommend to follow the general advise in trying to

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
With respect to scaling we recommend to follow the general advice in trying to
```
_Advise_ is the verb, right?

database server is feasible, it maybe a futile exercise if the database server
itself is the bottleneck.

We can achieve redundancy for the JSON-API by using a load-balancer like nginx with some
acceptable routing mechanism and then and having multiple *JSON API* services sit behind it
each with their own backend database servers and dedicated computation and memory resources.

Users may consider running PostgreSQL backend in a `high availability configuration <https://www.postgresql.org/docs/current/high-availability.html>`__.
The benefits of this are use-case dependent as this may be more expensive for
smaller active contract datasets, where re-initializing the cache is cheap and fast.

Finally we recommend using app orchestration utilities which monitor the health of the service
and perform subsequent operations to ensure availability. These utilities can use the
`healthcheck endpoints <https://docs.daml.com/json-api/index.html#healthcheck-endpoints>`__
provided by the JSON API. This can also be tied into supporting arbitrary autoscaling implementation
to ensure minimum number of *JSON API* services on failures or rolling upgrades.

> Logging
> ***************************

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Logging
*******
```

*JSON API* uses the industry-standard Logback for logging. You can
read more about that in the `Logback documentation <http://logback.qos.ch/>`__.

The logging infrastructure leverages structured logging as implemented by the
`Logstash Logback Encoder <https://github.com/logstash/logstash-logback-encoder/blob/logstash-logback-encoder-6.3/README.md>`__.

Logged events should carry information about the request being served by the
*JSON API* service. When using a traditional logging target (e.g. standard output
or rotating files) this information will be part of the log description.
Using a logging target compatible with the Logstash Logback Encoder allows to have rich
logs with structured information about the event being logged.

> Metrics
> ***************************

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Metrics
*******
```

This in-memory backend setup is inefficient for larger datasets as for every query it
ends up fetching the entire active contract set for the templates referenced in that query.
For this reason for production setups at a minimum we recommend to use a database
as a *Query Store*, this will allow for more efficient caching of the data to improve
query performance. Details for enabling a query store are highlighted below.

Query Store
***********

.. note:: The Community Edition of Daml Connect only supports PostgreSQL backends for the *HTTP JSON API* server, but the Enterprise Edition also supports Oracle backends.

*Query Store* can be described as a cached search index and is useful for use-cases
where we need to query large active contract sets(ACS). The *HTTP-JSON API* server can be
configured with PostgreSQL/Oracle(Enterprise Edition only) as the query-store backend.

The *Query Store* is built by saving the state of the ACS up to the current ledger
offset. This allows the *HTTP-JSON API* to only request the delta on subsequent queries,
making it much faster than having to request the entire ACS every time.

> Given the cache like semantics of the *Query Store* it is safe to drop and re-initialize the store at any point

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Given the cache like semantics of the *Query Store* it is safe to drop and re-initialize the store at any point, though there may be a temporary performance impact while the *Query Store* is being rebuilt.
```
